{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf430
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue177;\red0\green91\blue255;\red45\green148\blue76;
\red4\green91\blue255;\red4\green91\blue255;\red242\green0\blue88;}
\deftab360
\pard\pardeftab360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 I. Introduction
\b0\fs28 \
Many C# refactors can be written most easily using the little refactor language built \cb1 into Continuum. The language is a little unconventional:\
\
\'95 It is dynamic: methods and variables are not explicitly typed and any method can be called on any object (although it is a fatal runtime error if the object cannot handle the call).\
\
\'95 All objects are immutable. In particular methods like TypeDeclaration.AddMember\
operate on the text store and do not affect the type instance for which it was called.\
\
\'95 It is object based not object oriented. All objects are class instances and classes may have derived classes, but it is not possible to define new classes.\
\

\b\fs36 II. Declarations
\b0\fs28 \
Might want to support some sort of extension method sort of thing. Maybe `define Type.Blarg(type)`.\
\
Methods which don't explicitly return a value return whatever was last executed.\
\

\b\fs36 III. Statements
\b0\fs28 \
\

\b\fs36 IV. Expressions
\b0\fs28 \
Instances may be null.\
\
String interpolation is "value: #\{an expression\}".\
\
Bullets are used within strings as a placeholder for a space if the add space directory preference is set and for new lines when the braces on their own line preference is set.\
\

\b\fs36 V. Types
\b0\fs28 \
Types are classes and may have methods, properties, and operators. Scripts may define new methods and properties but cannot define new operators or types. The types are:\
\

\b Attribute
\b0  : Declaration\
Represents a .NET attribute declaration.\
String \cf3 Arguments\cf0 	The arguments supplied to the attribute, e.g. "false". May be empty, but will not be null.\
String \cf3 Name\cf0 				The attribute name, e.g. "CLSCompliant".\
String \cf3 Target\cf0 			Name of the object the attribute applies to, e.g. "assembly". May be null.\
\

\b Body
\b0  : Object\
Represents a block of statements or declarations.\
Edit \cf4 InsertFirst\cf0 (text)		Insert arbitrary code at the start of a block.\
Edit \cf4 InsertLast\cf0 (text)		Insert arbitrary code at the end of a block.\
\

\b Boolean
\b0  : Object\
This class has two instances which are referred to by the literals 'true' and 'false'.\
Boolean operator \cf3 and\cf0 (lhs, rhs)		Boolean and.\
Boolean operator \cf3 not\cf0 (value)			Logical complement.\
Boolean operator \cf3 or\cf0 (lhs, rhs)		Boolean or.\
\

\b Class
\b0  : TypeDeclaration\
Represents a C# class declaration. This type defines no new members.\
\

\b Declaration
\b0  : Object\
Base class for objects which may be declared in C# source code. This type defines no new members.\
\

\b Delegate
\b0  : TypeDeclaration\
Represents a C# delegate type declaration.\
Sequence<Parameter> \cf3 Parameters\cf0 				\
String \cf3 ReturnType\cf0 							E.g. "int". Will not have any whitespace.\
\

\b Edit
\b0  : Object\
The type of methods which affect the text store. Note that in order for edits to be sanely composed none of the edits done by a script can overlap. This type defines no new members.\
\

\b Enum
\b0  : TypeDeclaration\
Represents a C# enum type declaration.\
String \cf3 BaseType\cf0 					E.g. "int". Will not have any whitespace.\
Sequence <String> \cf3 Names\cf0 	Names of all of the enum values.\
\

\b Event
\b0  : Member\
Represents a C# event member declaration.\
String \cf3 Type\cf0 					E.g. "bool". Will not have any whitespace.\
\

\b ExternAlias
\b0  : Declaration\
Represents an external alias. (These are used in conjunction with the alias form of gmcs's -reference command to reference distinct types which happen to have the same fully qualified name.)\
String \cf3 Name\cf0 					E.g. "MyType".\
\

\b Field
\b0  : Member\
Represents a field member. May be a constant.\
String \cf3 Type\cf0 				E.g. "int" Will not have any whitespace.\
String \cf3 Value\cf0 				E.g. "3.1.4" May have whitespace and may be null, but will not be empty.\
\

\b GlobalNamespace
\b0  : Namespace\
The implicit global namespace.\
Sequence<Attribute>\cf3 Attributes\cf0 			\
\

\b Indexer
\b0  : Member\
Represents an indexer member.\
String \cf3 GetterAccess\cf0 								If not null then this overrides the indexer access.\
Sequence<Attribute> \cf3 GetterAttributes\cf0 		Null if there is no getter or it is abstract.\
Body \cf3 GetterBody\cf0 									Null if there is no getter or it is abstract.\
Boolean \cf3 HasGetter\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 HasSetter\cf0 					\
Sequence<Parameter> \cf3 Parameters\cf0 				\
String \cf3 ReturnType\cf0 									E.g. "Dictionary<string,int>. Will not have whitespace.\
String \cf3 SetterAccess\cf0 									If not null then this overrides the indexer access.\
Sequence<Attribute> \cf3 SetterAttributes\cf0 	Null if there is no setter or it is abstract.\
Body \cf3 SetterBody\cf0 										Null if there is no setter or it is abstract.\
\

\b Interface
\b0  : TypeDeclaration\
Represents an interface type declaration. This type defines no new members.\
\

\b Member
\b0  : Declaration\
Base class for declarations that appear within types.\
String \cf3 Access\cf0 								E.g. "public".\
Edit \cf4 AddMemberAfter\cf0 (text)			It's an error to call this with a member signature that is already used by the type.\
Edit \cf4 AddMemberBefore\cf0 (text)		It's an error to call this with a member signature that is already used by the type.\
Sequence<Attribute> \cf3 Attributes\cf0 			\
Edit \cf4 ChangeAccess\cf0 (access)			Change "public", "private", etc to a different value.\
TypeDeclaration \cf3 DeclaringType\cf0 	The type the member is declared within. Will be null for delegates and enums declared in a namespace.\
String \cf3 FullName\cf0 								\
Boolean \cf3 IsAbstract\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsConst\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsInternal\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsOverride\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsProtected\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsPrivate\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsPublic\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsReadonly\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsSealed\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsStatic\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsVirtual\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsVolatile\cf0 				\
String \cf3 Modifiers\cf0 							E.g. "public, sealed".\
String \cf3 Name\cf0 									\
\

\b Method
\b0  : Member\
Represents a method declaration.\
String \cf3 Constraints\cf0 							E.g. "where KEY : new ()". May be null.\
String \cf3 GenericArguments\cf0 				E.g. "KEY,VALUE" Will not have whitespace and will be null if the method is not generic.\
Body \cf3 Body\cf0 										Null if the method has no body.\
Boolean \cf3 IsConstructor\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsExtension\cf0 							\
Boolean \cf3 IsFinalizer\cf0 							\
Sequence<Parameter> \cf3 Parameters\cf0 						\
String \cf3 ReturnType\cf0 							Will not have whitespace.\
\

\b Namespace
\b0  : TypeScope\
Represents a C# namespace.\
Edit \cf4 AddUsing\cf0 (name)							Add a new using directive. No-op if the name is already being used.\
Sequence<UsingAlias> \cf3 Aliases\cf0 				\
Sequence<ExternAlias> \cf3 Externs\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 TypeMatches\cf0 (type, name)		Returns true if the type matches the name (e.g. TypeMatches(field.Type, "System.IntPtr")). Note that this accounts for using directives, namespace aliases, and type aliases.  \
String \cf3 Name\cf0 											E.g. "System.IO" or "<globals>".\
Sequence<Namespace> \cf3 Namespaces\cf0 		\
Sequence<UsingDirective> \cf3 Uses\cf0 					\
\

\b Object
\b0 \
This is the base class for all types. It has the following members:\
Boolean operator \cf3 ==\cf0 (lhs, rhs)			Returns true if the lhs and rhs have the same value.\
Boolean operator \cf3 !=\cf0 (lhs, rhs)			Returns true if the lhs and rhs have different values.\
Boolean operator \cf3 is\cf0 (value, name)		Returns true if value is or derives from the type name.\
\

\b Operator
\b0  : Member\
Represents an operator declaration.\
Body \cf3 Body\cf0 										Null if the operator has no body.\
Boolean \cf3 IsConversion\cf0 								\
Boolean \cf3 IsExplicit\cf0 								Returns true if the operator is an explicit conversion operator.\
Boolean \cf3 IsImplicit\cf0 							Returns true if the operator is an implicit conversion operator.\
Sequence<Parameter> \cf3 Parameters\cf0 					\
String \cf3 ReturnType\cf0 							Will not have whitespace.\
\

\b Parameter
\b0  : Object\
Represents a method or delegate formal argument declaration.\
Sequence<Attribute> \cf3 Attributes\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsParams\cf0 						True if the parameter was declared with the params keyword.\
String \cf3 Modifier\cf0 							One of "none", "ref", "out", or "this".\
String \cf3 Name\cf0 								E.g. "width".\
String \cf3 Type\cf0 								Will not have whitespace.\
\

\b Property
\b0  : Member\
Represents a property declaration.\
String \cf3 GetterAccess\cf0 								If not null then this overrides the property access.\
Sequence<Attribute> \cf3 GetterAttributes\cf0 		Null if there is no getter or it is abstract.	\
Body \cf3 GetterBody\cf0 									Null if there is no getter or it is abstract.\
Boolean \cf3 HasGetter\cf0 										\
Boolean \cf3 HasSetter\cf0 										\
String \cf3 ReturnType\cf0 									Will not have whitespace.\
String \cf3 SetterAccess\cf0 									If not null then this overrides the property access.\
Sequence<Attribute>\cf3 SetterAttributes\cf0 		Null if there is no setter or it is abstract.\
Body \cf3 SetterBody\cf0 										Null if there is no setter or it is abstract.\
  \

\b Script
\b0  : Object\
This is the type that your methods are added to. It has the following built-in\
members:\
Boolean \cf3 EnableTracing\cf0 					If this returns true method calls are written to stdout.\
String \cf3 GetUniqueName\cf0 (name)		Creates a name that is unique within Scope.\
GlobalNamespace \cf3 Globals\cf0 									\
Boolean \cf5 HasSelection\cf0 					Returns true if the selection is not empty.\
Edit \cf4 Indent\cf0 (tabs)							Insert zero or more tab characters to the start of each line which intersects the selection.\
Edit \cf4 InsertAfterSelection\cf0 (text)		Inserts one or more lines after the last line in the selection.\
Edit \cf4 InsertBeforeSelection\cf0 (text)	Inserts one or more lines before the first line in the selection.\
Object \cf3 Ask\cf0 (prompt, default)\cf3 		\cf0 Pops up a dialog asking the user a question. Default may be a string or boolean.\
Void \cf3 Raise\cf0 (message)					Abort the script with an error message.\
Void \cf3 Run\cf0 ()									Entry point for scripts. Must be defined by all scripts.\
Declaration \cf3 Scope\cf0 						The declaration the insertion point is within.\
String \cf6 Selection\cf0 							Returns the selection.\
Edit \cf3 Write\cf0 (o)\cf3 		\cf0 						Write an object to stdout.\
Edit \cf3 WriteLine\cf0 (o)\cf3 	\cf0 						Writes an object and a new-line to stdout.\
\

\b Sequence
\b0  : Object\
Represents a list of values.\cf3 \
\cf0 Boolean \cf3 Contains\cf0 (e)		Returns true if the sequence contains the specified element.\
Object \cf3 Fifth\cf0 					Returns the object at index 4.\
Object \cf3 First\cf0 					Returns the object at index 0.\
Object \cf3 Fourth\cf0 				Returns the object at index 3.\
Object \cf3 Head	\cf0 				Returns the first element of the sequence.\
Boolean \cf3 IsEmpty\cf0 			Returns true if the sequence has no elements.\
Object \cf3 Last	\cf0 				Returns the last object.\
Object \cf3 Second\cf0 				Returns the object at index 1.\
Sequence \cf3 Tail	\cf0 			Returns all but the first element of the sequence. Can be called on an empty sequence.\
Object \cf3 Third\cf0 					Returns the object at index 2.\
\

\b String
\b0  : Object\
Represents a list of characters. \
String operator \cf3 +\cf0 (rhs)				Concatenates a string and an arbitrary object.\
Boolean \cf3 Contains\cf0 (s)					Returns true if the target contains the specified string.\
Boolean \cf3 EndsWith\cf0 (s)				Returns true if the target ends with the specified string.\
Boolean \cf3 IsEmpty\cf0 						Returns true if the string has no characters.\
String \cf3 Join\cf0 (list)						Converts every element in the list to a string and concatenates them using the original string as a separator.\
Boolean \cf3 Replace\cf0 (old, new)		Returns a new string with old instances replaced by new.\
Boolean \cf3 StartsWith\cf0 (s)				Returns true if the target starts with the specified string.\
\

\b Struct
\b0  : TypeDeclaration\
Represents a struct type declaration. This type defines no new members.\
\

\b TypeDeclaration
\b0  : TypeScope\
Base type for Interface, Struct, and Class types.\
String \cf3 Access\cf0 									E.g. "internal".\
Edit \cf4 AddBase\cf0 (name)						Adds a new base class or interface to the type. No-op if the type already has the base.\
Edit \cf4 AddMember\cf0 (text)						Adds a new method to the type. It's an error to call this with a method signature that is already used by the type.\
Sequence<Attribute> \cf3 Attributes\cf0 				\
Sequence<String> \cf3 Bases\cf0 					E.g. ["IBar", "IFoo"].\
String \cf3 Constraints\cf0 							E.g. "where KEY : new ()". May be null.\
TypeDeclaration \cf3 DeclaringType\cf0 		The type this type is declared within. Will be null if the type is not a nested type.\
Sequence<Event> \cf3 Events\cf0 					\
Sequence<Field> \cf3 Fields\cf0 									\
String \cf3 FullName\cf0 								\
String \cf3 GenericArguments\cf0 				E.g. "KEY,VALUE" Will not have whitespace and will be null if the method is not generic.\
String \cf3 GetFieldName\cf0 (name)			Gets a unique field name. May add a prefix or suffix.\
String \cf3 GetUniqueName\cf0 (name)			Creates a member name that is unique within type (but possibly not its base classes).\
Boolean \cf3 HasMember\cf0 (name, types)	Returns true if the type has a member with the specified name and argument types (types should be a sequence of type name strings).\
Sequence<Indexer> \cf3 Indexers\cf0 				\
Boolean \cf3 IsAbstract\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsInternal\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsPartial\cf0 						\
Boolean \cf3 IsPrivate\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsProtected\cf0 					\
Boolean \cf3 IsPublic\cf0 						\
Boolean \cf3 IsSealed\cf0 								Returns true if the type is a struct or is decorated with the sealed keyword.\
Boolean \cf3 IsStatic\cf0 						\
Sequence <Member> \cf3 Members\cf0 				\
Sequence <Method> \cf3 Methods\cf0 					\
String \cf3 Modifiers\cf0 								E.g. "internal, abstract".\
String \cf3 Name\cf0 								\
Sequence<Operator> \cf3 Operators\cf0 				\
Sequence<Property> \cf3 Properties\cf0 				\

\b \
TypeScope
\b0  : Declaration\
Base class for types which contain declarations: namespaces and types.\
Body \cf3 Body\cf0 										\
Sequence<Class> \cf3 Classes\cf0 			\
Sequence<Declaration> \cf3 Declarations\cf0 	\
Sequence<Delegate> \cf3 Delegates\cf0 					\
Sequence<Enum> \cf3 Enums\cf0 			\
Sequence<Interface> \cf3 Interfaces\cf0 		\
Namespace \cf3 Namespace\cf0 					The namespace this container was declared in. Will be null if it was declared in the global namespace.\
Sequence<Struct> \cf3 Structs\cf0 			\
Sequence<Type> \cf3 Types\cf0 			\
\

\b UsingAlias
\b0  : Declaration\
Represents a using directive.\
String \cf3 Alias\cf0 			E.g. "OldCollections" or "MyTable".\
String \cf3 Value\cf0 			E.g. "System.Collections" or "Dictionary<string,string>" Will not have whitespace.\
\

\b UsingDirective
\b0  : Declaration\
Represents a type or namespace alias.\
String \cf3 Namespace\cf0 	E.g. "System.IO".\
\

\b Void
\b0  : Object\
This is the type of the null literal. This type defines no new methods.\
\

\b\fs36 VI. Grammar
\b0\fs28 \
\cf7 # Declarations\cf0 \
CompilationUnit := Declaration+\
\
Declaration := MethodDeclaration | PropertyDeclaration\
\
MethodDeclaration := '\cf3 define\cf0 ' Identifier FormalArgs Statement* '\cf3 end\cf0 '\
\
PropertyDeclaration := '\cf3 define\cf0 ' '\cf3 property\cf0 ' Identifier Statement* '\cf3 end\cf0 '\
\
FormalArgs := '(' IdentifierList? ')'\
\
IdentifierList := Identifier (',' Identifier)*\
\
\
\cf7 # Statements\cf0 \
Statement := IfStatement | ForStatement | LetStatement | MethodStatement | ReturnStatement\
\
IfStatement := IfClause ElifClause* ElseClause? '\cf3 end\cf0 '\
\
IfClause := '\cf3 if\cf0 ' Expression '\cf3 then\cf0 ' Statement*\
\
ElifClause := '\cf3 elif\cf0 ' Expression '\cf3 then\cf0 ' Statement*\
\
ElseClause := '\cf3 else\cf0 ' Statement*\
\
MethodStatement := CallExpression			\
\
ForStatement := ForClause WhereClause? '\cf3 do\cf0 ' Statement* '\cf3 end\cf0 '\
\
ForClause := '\cf3 for\cf0 ' Identifier '\cf3 in\cf0 ' CallExpression	\cf7 # Expression may be null\cf0 \
\
WhereClause := '\cf3 where\cf0 ' OrExpression\
\
LetStatement := '\cf3 let\cf0 ' LetLocal ('\cf3 ,\cf0 ' LetLocal)* '\cf3 in\cf0 ' Statement* '\cf3 end\cf0 '\
\
LetLocal := Identifier '=' Expression\
\
ReturnStatement := '\cf3 return\cf0 ' Expression\
\
\
\cf7 # Expressions\cf0 \
Expression := OrExpression | FromExpression | WhenExpression\
\
FromExpression := FromClause ('\cf3 where\cf0 ' OrExpression)? ('\cf3 select\cf0 ' OrExpression)?\
\
FromClause := '\cf3 from\cf0 ' Identifier '\cf3 in\cf0 ' CallExpression\
\
WhenExpression := OrExpression '\cf3 when\cf0 ' OrExpression '\cf3 else\cf0 ' OrExpression\
\
OrExpression := AndExpression ('\cf3 or\cf0 ' AndExpression)*\
\
AndExpression := EqualityExpression ('\cf3 and\cf0 ' EqualityExpression)*\
\
EqualityExpression := RelationalExpression (('==' | '!=') RelationalExpression)?\
\
RelationalExpression := AddExpresion ('\cf3 is\cf0 ' Identifier)?\
\
AddExpresion := UnaryExpression ('+' UnaryExpression)*\
\
UnaryExpression := '\cf3 not\cf0 '? CallExpression\
\
CallExpression := PrimaryExpression ('.' MethodCall)*			\
\
PrimaryExpression := Literal | Local | MethodCall | ParenthesizedExpression\
	\
Local := Identifier										\
\
MethodCall := Identifier ActualArgs?										\
\
ActualArgs := '(' ExpressionList? ')'\
\
ExpressionList := Expression (',' Expression)*\
\
ParenthesizedExpression := '(' Expression ')'\
\
\
\cf7 # Lexical\cf0 \
Identifier := IdentifierStart IdentifierSuffix*		\cf7 # but not a Keyword\cf0 \
\
IdentifierStart := ascii letter or underscore\
\
IdentifierSuffix := ascii letter, ascii digit, or underscore\
\
Literal := '\cf3 true\cf0 ' | '\cf3 false\cf0 ' | '\cf3 null\cf0 ' | '\cf3 self\cf0 ' | SequenceLiteral | StringLiteral\
\
SequenceLiteral := '[' ExpressionList? ']'\
\
StringLiteral := '"' StringChar+ '"'\
\
StringChar := any char but '"' or '""'\
\
Comment := '#' AnyChar* NewLine\
\
AnyChar := any character but \\n or \\r\
\
Keyword := Reserved | '\cf3 and\cf0 ' | '\cf3 define\cf0 ' | '\cf3 do\cf0 ' | '\cf3 elif\cf0 ' | '\cf3 else\cf0 ' | '\cf3 end\cf0 ' | '\cf3 false\cf0 ' | '\cf3 for\cf0 ' | '\cf3 if\cf0 ' | '\cf3 in\cf0 ' | '\cf3 is\cf0 ' | '\cf3 let\cf0 ' | '\cf3 not\cf0 ' | '\cf3 null\cf0 ' | '\cf3 or\cf0 ' | '\cf3 property\cf0 ' | '\cf3 return\cf0 ' | '\cf3 select\cf0 ' | '\cf3 self\cf0 ' | '\cf3 then\cf0 ' | '\cf3 true\cf0 ' | '\cf3 when\cf0 ' | '\cf3 where\cf0 '\
\
Reserved := 'assert' | 'class' | 'case' | 'except' | 'foreach' | 'from' | 'match' | 'otherwise' | 'while'\
\
NewLine := \\n\
\
Whitespace := ' ' | '\\t' | '\\n'\
\
}